@node I gonna press tab
@chapter I gonna press tab

I ever had a romantic relationship with the art of producing code. It may seems
sad for most people but after my family and the greatest Corinthians football
(soccer) club, programming is what I like most.

I have dedicated years of my life learning how to code, and a huge amount of
time in never-used software. Like when I built
@url{https://ragu-framework.github.io/, Ragu}, a entire tooling to handle
micro-frontends. Or when @url{https://johnnyrichard.com/, Jhonny} and I decided
to build an entire programming language from scratch (@url{https://o-lang.org/,
o-lang}).

None of this softwares were made with the intention of been used, but I ever
put my heart on it. I remember when Johnny and I were hardly disagreeing about
o-lang's future. I was on the beach, siting in one of those uncomfortable
chairs texting him with slippery sunscreen hands. I was arguing like in a
teenager couple fight. That's is how much I care about coding.

Now, here I'm at the work a month ago seeing all my coworkers using for months
some sort of AI code assistant tool. I found myself kinda obsolete using my old
almost-vanilla vim with just a few customizations wrote by myself. That's when
I had one of my worst night of insomnia. And before I could finally fall asleep
I told myself: "Fuck-off I gonna press tab".

That's what I did. I pressed tab a multiple times in the past month. To be
honest I felt myself a little more productive. Our work is a lot repetitive,
for these tasks the AI shines. I still feel sad like when I wanna to code
something but the AI already give me the code. But that's me at my work.

Obviously, I don't wanna work in a toxic environment, but I'm mature enough to
know that at my work I'm paid to work and to present the most productive
version of myself. If AI give any extra productivity I gonna use it.

I would love send and reviewing patches sent by email as most of the Linux
modules are maintained. And do my entire work in a 80x24 black screen. But this
never gonna happen in a commercial environment. We hobbyist coders should
understand that commercial software is not written the same as open source
code, which also differs from hobby code. We should use the appropriated
tooling for the environment.

I still use vim, because I'm more productive with it, But now with some AI
stuff. I may try some modern editor with vim emulation to see if it works.

About hobbies I have more and more challenging myself into the low level as the
way we produce code commercially evolves. The last few weeks I was basically
reviewing basic electronics, doing SR Latches by just using transistors.

And at the and I still happy. I do my work and my passion at home.
